en: Add document for tiup-dm offline mode (#391)
pingcap/docs-dm: en/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup-offline.md

---

> title: Deploy a TiDB Cluster Offline Using TiUP (Experimental)
> summary: Introduce how to deploy a TiDB cluster offline using TiUP.
> ---
> 
> # Deploy a TiDB Cluster Offline Using TiUP (Experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Deploy a DM Cluster Offline Using TiUP (Experimental)
summary: Introduce how to deploy a DM cluster offline using TiUP.
---

# Deploy a DM Cluster Offline Using TiUP (Experimental)
```

> **Warning:**
>
> Using TiUP to deploy a DM cluster offline is still an experimental feature. It is **NOT** recommended to use this feature in production.

> This document describes how to deploy a TiDB cluster offline using TiUP.

Author: ```suggestion
This document describes how to deploy a DM cluster offline using TiUP.
```

- Install the TiUP package manager online.

    1. Install the TiUP tool:

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh
        ```

    2. Redeclare the global environment variables:

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        source .bash_profile
        ```

    3. Confirm whether TiUP is installed:

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        which tiup
        ```

- Pull the mirror using TiUP

    1. Pull the needed components on a machine that has access to the Internet:

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```bash
        export version=v2.0.0-rc  # You can modify it to the needed version.
        tiup mirror clone tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64 --os=linux --arch=amd64 \
            --dm-master=${version} --dm-worker=${version} --dmctl=${version} \
            --alertmanager=v0.17.0 --grafana=v4.0.3 --prometheus=v4.0.3 \
            --tiup=$(tiup --version|grep 'tiup'|awk -F ' ' '{print $1}') --dm=$(tiup --version|grep 'tiup'|awk -F ' ' '{print $1}')
        ```

>         The command above creates a directory named `tidb-community-server-${version}-linux-amd64` in the current directory, which contains the component package managed by TiUP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The command above creates a directory named `tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64` in the current directory, which contains the component package managed by TiUP.
```

    2. Pack the component package by using the `tar` command and send the package to the control machine in the isolated environment:

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```bash
        tar czvf tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64
        ```

>         `tidb-community-server-${version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz` is an independent offline environment package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz` is an independent offline environment package.
```

Reviewer: 下面还有些地方也需要改一下

## Step 2: Deploy the offline TiUP component

After sending the package to the control machine of the target cluster, install the TiUP component by running the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
export version=v2.0.0-rc # You can modify it to the needed version.
tar xzvf tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz
sh tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64/local_install.sh
source /home/tidb/.bash_profile
```

> The `local_install.sh` script automatically executes the `tiup mirror set dm-${version}-linux-amd64` command to set the current mirror address to `dm-${version}-linux-amd64`.

Author: ```suggestion
The `local_install.sh` script automatically executes the `tiup mirror set tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64` command to set the current mirror address to `tidb-dm-${version}-linux-amd64`.
```

> The `local_install.sh` script automatically executes the `tiup mirror set tidb-community-server-${version}-linux-amd64` command to set the current mirror address to `tidb-community-server-${version}-linux-amd64`.

Author: ```suggestion
The `local_install.sh` script automatically executes the `tiup mirror set dm-server-${version}-linux-amd64` command to set the current mirror address to `dm-server-${version}-linux-amd64`.
```

> To switch the mirror to another directory, you can manually execute the `tiup mirror set <mirror-dir>` command. If you want to switch back to the official mirror, execute `tiup mirror set https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To switch the mirror to another directory, manually execute the `tiup mirror set <mirror-dir>` command. If you want to switch back to the official mirror, execute `tiup mirror set https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com`.
```

## Step 3: Edit the initialization configuration file

> You need to edit the cluster initialization configuration file according to different cluster typologies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to edit the cluster initialization configuration file according to different cluster topologies. 
```
You made a "typo". 😂

> For the full configuration template, refer to the [TiUP configuration parameter template](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/blob/master/examples/topology.example.yaml). Create a configuration file `topology.yaml`. If you need to edit the configuration files in other combined scenarios, adjust them according to multiple templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the full configuration template, refer to the [TiUP configuration parameter template](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/blob/master/examples/topology.example.yaml). Create a configuration file `topology.yaml`. In other combined scenarios, edit the configuration file as needed according to the templates.
```

> - For parameters that should be effective on a specific node, configure these parameters in `config` of this node.
>
> - Use `.` to indicate the subcategory of the configuration, such as `log.slow-threshold`. For more formats, see [TiUP configuration template](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/blob/master/examples/dm/topology.example.yaml).
>
> - For more parameter description, see [master `config.toml.example`](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/blob/master/dm/master/dm-master.toml) and [worker `config.toml.example`](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/blob/master/dm/worker/dm-worker.toml).
>
> - Make sure that the ports among the following components are interconnected:
>     - The `peer_port` (`8291` by default) among the DM-master nodes are interconnected.
>     - Each DM-master node can connect to the `port` of all DM-worker nodes (`8262` by default).
>     - Each DM-worker node can connect to the `port` of all DM-master nodes (`8261` by default).
>     - The TiUP nodes can connect to the `port` of all DM-master nodes (`8261` by default).
>     - The TiUP nodes can connect to the `port` of all DM-worker nodes (`8262` by default).

## Step 4: Execute the deployment command

> **Note:**
>

> > You can use secret keys or interactive passwords for security authentication when you deploy TiDB using TiUP:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can use secret keys or interactive passwords for security authentication when you deploy DM using TiUP:
```

>
> - If you use secret keys, you can specify the path of the keys through `-i` or `--identity_file`;
> - If you use passwords, add the `-p` flag to enter the password interaction window;
> - If password-free login to the target machine has been configured, no authentication is required.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dm deploy dm-test ${version} ./topology.yaml --user root [-p] [-i /home/root/.ssh/gcp_rsa]
```

In the above command:

- The name of the deployed DM cluster is `dm-test`.

> - The version of the DM cluster is `${version}`, You can see other supported versions by running `tiup list dm-master`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The version of the DM cluster is `${version}`. You can view the latest versions supported by TiUP by running `tiup list dm-master`.
```

Author: Done in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-dm/pull/391/commits/1301f389f357427d6fc6410681c7d4bfc86d241c.
